(bells chiming)
Go back to your pizzas here
and take that one pizza that we've created here.
And let's name it a pepperoni.
Actually let's call it master pizza.
We're gonna put all of the toppings on this one.
Go ahead and update that.
Now you see there is a price input.
There is a slug, there is a name,
but there's no way to select what toppings go on that pizza.
So let's open up the schema for our pizza.
So pizza.js,
and let's go down to the fields array
and we'll go,
where should we go here?
Let's go right under...
Let's go to the end, okay.
Make sure you have a comma there
and give yourself a new object.
Now the name of this is going to be toppings.
The title, it's going to be a capital T, Toppings.
The type is going to be, what is it?
Like the type of it is,
well, it's a relational content and we could,
in this case, just go have a reference to topping.
But in our case, we wanna have a one to many relationships.
So we want an array of references.
So we'll say the type is array.
And then we have an of,
let's look at the docs for this right now.
So go back to the docs here, go to references, schema types,
and we'll go to array.
You'll see that it allows you to select multiple
in their case they have an array of people
that are like in a movie or something like that.
So the type and of,
and they got a really simple version here of type of string.
So we could do that.
So we can say of array.
And now we're just doing like another one of these.
We're just doing another array of fields.
So in here I can say array of type string.
Let's, let's see what that looks like when we do it.
Here we go, toppings, add so pepperoni
and mushrooms, and we'd go ahead and publish that.
Now, the reason why we're not going to be doing that
is because these are not related
to the actual toppings type.
And if I were to make an update to the pepperoni type,
there's no connection between the two.
Like maybe I wanted to like put a capital P on that.
If that was the case,
then it would have to go through every single pizza
that has that pepperoni.
And we don't want to do that.
We wanna relate it to topping.
So if I make a change to pepperoni's display name,
or if I upload a new photo for a pepperoni
or anything like that,
it will be updated for every pizza that has that topping.
So one kinda cool thing about sanity is if you were to,
now that I just like added data and saved it.
If you were to change this,
it would notice that you have data saved in the database,
but then that no longer,
no longer has a field of string.
And it will tell you, you can delete that data yourself,
but in our case, let's just go ahead
and delete those two things.
If you did it and publish it.
So we don't have any ghost data that's inaccessible.
So our case is not a type of string.
It's going to be a type of,
well, let's go to the types, reference, right?
So we're kinda using two different field types here.
We're having an array of a special type,
which is a reference.
So we'll say type of reference
and we wanna reference it to,
and in this case, it's really cool.
Normally you think, okay, just reference to topping,
but you can have reference to multiple types.
So if you had like toppings and sauces,
maybe you wanted to sauces versus own type.
You could do that.
So in our case it's going to be an array again,
with a type of topping.
And where do I get that topping from?
Well, that is the name of our topping.
So that's linked right here.
That's really important there.
So a type of array,
it's an array of references that reference topping.
We'll give it a save, go here.
Now, when you click add it pops this up
and I can type something like P-E, pepperoni pops up,
and this is a little confusing to me.
Cause you think it's like added.
So you think you could close, you can do it again.
You can't add multiples as of right now,
I talked to the team myself.
So it was like onions.
But if you were to do another one like mushrooms,
you see it just deleted onion.
So you have to add one, close it, open it up again.
Then we'll put onions in there and finally bacon.
Go ahead and hit publish.
All right, so now this pepperoni,
You'll see that, that the media
is actually already showing up.
It just detected that we had an image field
and it starts to show it in there.
However, we do have control over that.
And ideally, what I would like to do
is underneath this pizza is list
a couple of the toppings that that pizza has.
So let's add one more pizza here
and we'll call it veggie delight, generate a slug for it.
I'm gonna upload an image.
I may say Jimmy Hendrix.
We have some really neat names for these coming up.
The price of it is $22 and 56 cents.
And then the toppings are just our two vegetarian ones,
which is mushroom and onion.
I realize that's probably not a very good pizza,
but we'll get
(laughing loudly)
some more toppings in a bit.
Go ahead and publish it.
Alright, so now I'm looking at these pizzas
and if I'm the editor, this is not even our website,
but if I'm editing it, I would like to see what toppings
are on the pizza just as a quick glance.
So what we can do here is we can create a custom preview
on our pizza just as we did on our toppings yes.
I'll go down to your pizza all the way to the bottom here.
And we will give ourselves a preview property.
And remember the preview has our select and our prepare.
So what fields do we wanna select?
What we want, the title, which is the name we want...
Oh, in our case, I said, name last time
in this case, I'm saying title.
It doesn't matter what you call them.
It's just, that's what it's going to be called
in your preview function.
So maybe that's good that I switched them up
just to show you that it doesn't really matter.
There's nothing special there.
We also want the media and that will be the image field.
And then we want all of the toppings.
Now, normally I thought like, okay, just say,
topping is going to be the toppings field, right?
And the way you can tell what your like,
sort of debug these things is,
if you go down under select and we say, prepare,
we want, let's just do fields.
And then we'll return pizza name
and then let's console log, the fields.
So we have our prepare function that takes in our fields
and we're on the console log to fields
and then return the pizza named.
As you open your up your dev tools here.
You might see a whole bunch of stuff.
So maybe refresh and see what we got here.
So this is kind of a bummer that Firefox
does this all the time.
Anytime you have a web socket and you're like,
reload the page like complains about the web socket,
not being able to close properly.
That's half Firefox, half the actual library.
So you just have to ignore that, unfortunately.
So here we go.
So there's all kinds of junk in here.
Just wade through it until you find your thing,
pizza JS line 56, good.
And then you will see that the fields that we got,
are media, which is our image we see in the asset,
they have the reference to the image ID.
They have a topping and then they have the toppings array.
But in this case,
you'll see that it just gives us a reference
to the actual thing, because that is a reference
to another type.
It doesn't give us the actual name.
So in order to select the topping name,
cause I don't care about the key or the reference ID here.
I want the actual name like pepperoni or mushroom.
We have to select it like this.
It's a little bit weird,
but also in the docs, it says just select what you need.
Don't select an entire array because you could be
unnecessarily fetching data.
So not toppings is going to be topping zero
and it's toppings.0.name.
So it's saying select the toppings array,
then grab the first thing and then grab the name.
That's not JavaScript, but that's the, just the syntax
that sanity studio is using.
And then we're just gonna select the first four toppings
because we don't, if the pizza has a hundred toppings,
we can't display that in there, right?
So we'll do that.
(beeping)
Let's see if I can use my text pastry one to X.
No, that didn't work, but I think I can do this delete text.
This is a little extension.
There we go called text pastry.
And if you have cursors, you can just say text pressure,
you one to X and everywhere there's a cursor
we'll insert one, two, three, four,
and did that.
And then I can just use my cursors to do the same thing.
There we go.
Yeah, I'm being a hot shot there.
You can certainly just go and type it yourself.
I just like to flex a little bit.
Now, if we refresh this page, here we go.
You see veggie delight, topping zero.
Here we go to topping one, topping two, topping three.
So those are undefined because
they don't have more than two toppings.
So one little trick I like to do here
is we could destructure all of them, like this.
So we could say title media toppings,
zero topping one, topping two, topping three.
And then we could just console log
all those variables like this,
and that will work.
So here we go, mushrooms, onions, undefined, undefined,
but one kind of little cool thing is you can use,
a rest pram and a function to destructure the things
that you want title in media.
And then you can use the three little dots to capture
the rest of the arguments into an object.
And the way we can do that is we delete all these.
And we simply say ...toppings.
And by saying that if we say anything else
that we haven't already destructured,
just stick it in an object called toppings.
And that's kinda cool because we know the rest
of the things are just toppings.
So we could just,
now, if you log toppings like that,
now, if you open it up, you'll see,
we have an object here with the rest of the toppings,
which is kind of cool.
So next thing we wanted to do is take care
of these undefined.
So let's write a little bit of comments here.
So one, just like filter undefined toppings out,
and then two, return the preview object
for the pizza.
So let's actually do two first.
So return an object where the title
is equal to the title property.
So I saved that it just does that.
Actually, no,
you see my prettier made it an implicit return.
I don't want that.
So I'm just gonna go into the logs stay.
Okay, good.
So we returned the title property
and we also returned the media property.
So you see it's as visually delayed already,
that should change to a thumbnail, good.
And then we also have the option
to put a subtitle, like this.
You see there's a subtitle there
so we can take our toppings,
join them with a comma and a space.
And it broke, what happened?
Heads up, got an error while preparing preview,
click for details.
It's nice, thank you.
Encountered an error.
Toppings that join is not a function.
Oh, obviously, because toppings is an object.
So if you want all the values,
you would have to wrap that in it, object.values.
And that will turn it from an object into an array.
And we only care about the,
we only care about the values here.
We don't care about the properties,
which is these four right here.
And then there we go.
That's actually looking pretty good.
We've got mushrooms, onions, except for that like little,
the undefined ones have this extra little space here.
So the way that we can do that is we'll create
another variable up here.
We'll say const tops is equal to object.values, toppings,
and then we can just filter it for if it is falcy,
meaning if it is undefined, it will filter itself out.
And we could just, normally you would say like topping,
topping is equal to undefined or not equal to undefined.
So if the topic is not undefined, then we want to keep it.
So we're filtering it.
And I actually tweeted that and someone's like,
well, you can just filter Boolean.
And what that will do is it will,
if you have Boolean, this.
Boolean,
if you have undefined, it returned false.
If you have a mushroom, it will turn true.
And it will also also filter out some nice things
if you have like a topping, that is just a space,
something went wrong.
Oh actually, no, that's wrong.
(laughing loudly)
It will keep it if it is a space,
what if it is a topping of zero?
No, so if you have a topic of zero, it will filter it out.
Don't know why you would have that
but that is just a way to convert
a value into a true Boolean.
So we filter them out there and then we'll go down here
and replace this object.values with our new array,
which is tops or pizzas.
Here we go, mushrooms, onions, pepperoni, mushrooms,
and onions bacon.
Beautiful.
So a little bit extra work here,
but a nice control over how it looks in our sanity studio.